So now let's have a look
at tags and resource groups.
So first tags, we know them.
They're key-value pairs that we can have
on many AWS resources.
And they're commonly used in EC2,
but many other sources as well.
And they have a free naming convention.
But common tags are going to be named
Environment, Team, and so on.
So we use tags for doing resource grouping,
as we'll see in this lecture,
but for automation as well,
for security, and cost allocation.
And the general rule of thumb is that it's better
to have too many tags then too few.
So with these tags now what we can do,
is that we can leverage them to create resource groups
and to do so while we make sure
that we can group two resources together,
if they share the same tags.
So they will allow us, for example,
to group applications together,
to group different layers of the same application stack,
or to differentiate between a production environment
versus a development environments.
So in this example, I have three EC2 instances.
Two of them have the environments dev as their tag, okay?
And one of them has the environment prod as their tag.
So what I can do is I can create a resource group
for the filter environment equals dev.
And this will create a logical group
of my first two instances.
So this is something you can do on a regional level, okay?
It's a regional service.
And it works not just with EC2 instances, of course.
But it works with Amazon EC2, S3,
DynamoDB, Lambda, and so on.
Okay, so let's get going with tagging our resources.
So the first instance, right now, I'm going to manage tags.
I'm going to add a tag.
First of all, the name is MyDevInstance.
And then I'm going to add a tag.
The environment is going to be dev,
and the team is going to be finance.
So I'm going to tag my first instance.
And now the name is showing here as well.
The second instance will also be tagged.
So I will manage the tags,
and the name is going to be MyProdInstance.
Now for the environment,
as you may have guessed is going to be prod.
And then for the team, it's still going to be finance.
And finally, I'm going for the last instance
to tag it as well.
So the name is going to be MyOtherDevInstance.
The tag is going to be environment dev,
and finally for the team, I'll use operations.
Okay, we're good to go.
So now we have our three instances and from there,
I'm going to be able to create resource groups.
So back into systems manager,
I'm going to go here,
and I'm going to find the resource groups, okay?
So, and then in the search bar, I'm going to go
to resource groups and find the window
for the resource groups.
I'm going to create a resource group,
and it's going to be tagged based, okay?
And then we need to select the resources
so we can use all resource types
to look across our accounts.
Or we can just look for EC2 instances.
And for example, we want you to have the environments.
Oops, environments.
Here we go.
To be equals to dev.
And add this.
If we do this, we can preview the resource group resources.
And we can find that two EC2 instances
are in my resource group.
We have my dev instance and my other dev instance.
It's just perfect.
So we'll call this one dev group.
And create this group.
So similarly, we can here create a new resource group.
And this one is going to be again for our EC2 instance,
and the environment is going to be of type prod.
We can preview the resource groups,
and then there's one resource within it.
And this one I can call ProdGroup.
Great.
And next I can create one last group.
So again, my EC2 instances, and for this time,
the team is going to be finance.
And here, I will call this group my finance group.
And again, we can look at the resources
and we can find two EC2 instances.
My prod instance and my dev instance
belong to this finance group.
So this is good.
We create a group.
And here we go, we have three resource groups.
Now, the reason why we do these resource groups
is that we wanna be able to operate SSM
directly at the group level.
So we can, for example, patch the operating system
and perform some actions and so on.
So this is why it's a prerequisite.
So once you have done your resource groups,
we're good to go for the next lectures.